one thing you've done as governor that
has been particularly unique amongst
leaders is you haven't just I think
given people platitudes you came out
with really stern warnings very early on
you you were very grim in your forecasts
you you you just told the people what
information you had it's it's a very
unique way to handle the press
conference you've also been very
personal in telling the stories that
that you've told is there a reason you
chose to do this you know because some
leaders would go I'm gonna I'm gonna
hide it all and not share anything with
the public I'll just make them feel good
you've chosen a completely different
approach why because I haven't slept at
nights and I feel like you could have
carried some of that burden for me but I
want to know why you chose to not do
that we had our first case on March 1st
I was going to put in some of the most
dramatic government mandates in history
no other governor has shut down the
economy nor the governor has ever said
you have to stay home if New Yorkers had
said no I'm not doing it and New Yorkers
are a defiant Bunch I would have been
powerless
I can't enforce a stay at home order for
19 million people the the ability to
have a plan was purely dependent on New
Yorkers buying in and they are smart and
they are cynical and if they don't
believe you or you haven't made your
argument and you haven't laid out the
facts they're not going to do it
especially when you're asking them to do
something they don't want to do
something they have never done before I
mean just think about saying that New
Yorkers everybody must stay home lock
the door you can't go outside except to
go buy food and then you have to run
right back home no no I'm a native New
Yorker my first instinct is yeah I'm not
doing that that's nice but I'm not doing
it so they had to believe it they had to
understand
and I am not in the business of not
telling the truth or trying to
manipulate or I'm only going to tell you
what you can handle because I'm worried
about what you can actually absorb no I
am not there to filter I'm not there to
manipulate here's the situation here are
the facts I'm going to tell you
everything I know you know everything I
know and just the way I know it no
sugarcoating there's there's no lying
that everyone has been affected by this
you know some days I feel like life is
normal some days I feel like this is the
craziest thing we've ever experienced
and it swings wildly and I know everyone
has a different experience of it I don't
know what it's like to be a leader a
governor of a state where thousands of
people are dying and you are hearing
this you are seeing the stories you're
responsible for these lives you're not
responsible for the deaths but you're
responsible for the lives of the people
and keeping everybody safe as safe as
you can what is that done for you as a
person like how like how are you doing
and how are you dealing with this on the
communication which as I said is so
important because really this is all a
voluntary program by New Yorkers right
they they change their behavior they
brought down the infection rate but I
gave them the information part of the
information was personal
because this is this is traumatic this
is PTSD for an entire generation that
will talk about this and it is personal
so I tried to communicate how I feel
personally in my fear and my anxiety as
part of this to say to you you're not
alone everyone's feeling this I'm
feeling it too
the one differentiation is I have to
deal with the number of deaths in the
state 15,000 people Trevor 911 2,700
people 911 2,700 people that was
supposed to be the worst experience of
my life I believed 2700 people this is
15,000 people 474 people yesterday
that weighs heavily on me I can sit here
and say to you I believe that we did
everything that could possibly done be
done I don't believe we lost anyone
because we didn't have a bed and we
didn't have doctors and nurses we did
that but we still lost 15,000 people and
I still am the governor and I still hold
myself responsible and I still say to
myself what else could I do what else
could I do what else could I do was
there anything else that we could be
doing right now that is a very heavy
burden to bear you you've also had an
interesting connection to the corona
virus on a very personal level and I
know we've got to let you go soon but I
wanted to chat to you a little bit about
a strange journey that many of us have
gone on where we got introduced to a
love and a friendship that you share
with your brother
who is on CNN and you know for many
people I mean we had never seen this
side of you we'd never seen you and your
brother and the way you joke with each
other and then it came out that Chris
had coronavirus and now all of a sudden
his world was turned upside down
did-did-did any of that experience shake
you in a different way what when it
became that much closer to you as a
person oh yeah yes for sure did and
again in the same way the powerlessness
powerless is my brother and he's my man
he's my best friend and you know I don't
like to give him any credit because
that's the whole big brother little
brother thing but the guy is a superstar
he really is and he's a beautiful guy
he's just a beauty but he gets sick he's
in his basement I can't even go see him
and then his wife gets sick she's
quarantined upstairs he's quarantined in
the basement he's got three kids
seventeen year old and two younger kids
and I can't go see him I can't help the
kids I mean it's this terrible nightmare
of a science fiction movie where you can
have the loved ones with this disease
where nobody knows whether you're going
to live or die in
and I kept saying to him don't worry
you're young and it's for your fine yes
sure but who knows right because yes it
tends to attack seniors but you also
have younger people who are dying and
there's nothing I could do I'm his big
brother I love him more than you than
anybody I'm the governor of the state
nothing that I can do to help and that
is a humbling situation to be in it just
shows you how we all try to be in
control you're in control of nothing
you're in control of nothing at the end
of the day men plan and God laughs right
so it's on top of all the disorientation
on top of the responsibility then you
just have this real-life situation where
you worry every day that is he going to
be the one that that could be that could
lose his life that could die from this
so it does bring it home it does bring
it home Trevor Oh governor thank you so
much for your time today
I really appreciate it hopefully we'll
be seeing you on the show on the other
side of this look after yourself
mentally physically and thank you so
much for joining us on the daily social
distancing show thank you
I'll keep watching
[Music]
you